[Music]
welcome to screen crush i'm ryan airy
it's hard to believe but when one
division is released this year it will
have been
559 days since we last stepped foot
in the marvel cinematic universe because
i'm assuming agents of shield no longer
counts
an alternate reality but since it's been
so long you might need a refresher on
who these characters are and how they're
going to come together
and even if you don't need a refresher
wouldn't it just be fun to think about
the old times
so let's start all the way back at the
creation of the universe when
six stones appeared out of the ether
that embodied the fundamental facets of
the universe
how was time
these stones were scattered across the
cosmos to become mcguffins at a later
date
that's not important right now roughly
10 billion years later a brilliant young
college student named tony stark begins
to invent
artificial intelligence now one of these
ai will become jarvis his personal
assistant who will help him with his job
which is build weapons for money then of
course
tony has a near-death experience and
stops making weapons to kill
and instead makes a single killing
weapon for his own pleasure yeah
i can fly he becomes iron man there are
other superheroes too like
thor a really old powerful alien with a
god complex you people are so petty
and tiny his dad odin was an expert in
these infinity stones even
hiding one on earth hang on to it in a
little while i'll come get it when i
need it
that is the space stone which was
briefly used by a nazi science cult
before being swiped by an alien
scientist named marvel
she used the space stone to create a
special light speed engine
but marvel was killed by one of her own
kind and the space stone's energy flowed
into her protege
carol danvers carol would later become a
hero called captain marvel and this
little girl monica rambo would help her
pick out the colors of her costume
fresh but back to odin he's a terrible
father to thor's adopted brother loki
your birthright
what's today and because daddy didn't
love him enough loki tries to steal the
throne of asgard but thor stops him
with the help of a few earth scientists
including a woman named darcy lewis
all the answers you seek will be yours
once i reclaim your name
what's miami later loki will act out
again and try to conquer earth but see
loki's actually working for this dude
thanos
thanos is an eco-terrorist from space
your planet was on the brink
of collapse i'm the one who stopped that
he's trying to gather all the infinity
stones into one magic power
glove so he can kill half the life in
the universe yeah well uh
just keep your power gloves off her pal
huh instead of just creating more food
for everybody
not a great plan he sends loki to earth
to capture the space stone
but thanos also gives loki the mind
stone hidden inside the scepter all the
superheroes band together and become a
team called the avengers and they hand
the scepter over to a spy agency called
shield but then
it turns out the good spy agency shield
was secretly an evil spy agency called
hydra
so the avengers are going around mopping
up hydrocells and causing a lot of
international resentment towards super
people hydra agents have run off with
the scepter to use it for experiments
that some would consider to be
a not true they're trying to use the
stone's energy to create their own super
people to combat the avengers so this
brings us to sokovia
a tiny european nation that's always
being invaded by someone
it's like the kiev of comic book movies
two sokovians have particularly suffered
from this endless war
wanda and pietro maximoff their parents
were killed by one of tony stark's bombs
on the side of the shell he's painted
one word
it's dark which goes to show that over
branding
is a bad idea tony meanwhile is worried
sick about another alien invasion he has
ptsd
nightmares and creates robots called the
iron legion to help keep the peace
i see a suit of armor around the world
but even so
vulnerable avengers like arrow guy here
almost die luckily this nice woman has
invented artificial tissue that can heal
him up
lickety-split when the avengers attack
the last hydra stronghold in sokovia
they encounter the maximoff twins you
didn't see that coming
each of them now has the abilities of
different infinity stones
pietro has super speed while wanda has
the powers of
several different stones reality mind
and time or put another way
he's fast and she's weird so wanda
messes around with tony's mind and shows
him a future where the avengers are dead
and earth is being invaded by aliens
saved us so to protect the earth he
decides to use the mind stone to
kickstart his other ai program from
college ultron
is to bring about world peace but for
some reason he decides that means he's
got to turn evil and kill the avengers
there's only one
path to peace the avengers extinction i
mean typical movie ai am i right and so
he steals the mind stone ultron recruits
the maximoff twins to help him fight the
avengers
meanwhile he buys tons of the strongest
metal on earth
vibranium so ultron uses the mind stone
to order this nice lady to make him a
new body made of artificial tissue and
the whole thing is fused together with
vibranium the vibranium atoms aren't
just compatible with the tissue cells
they're binding them
his plan is to transfer his own mind
into this body by using the mind stone
which is the same object that originally
gave him consciousness i can read him
he's dreaming but then wanda touches
this cradle and sees ultron's master
plan
to lift her entire country into the sky
drop it
kill billions of people and leave him as
the superior life form on earth now this
understandably freaks her out so she and
her brother join the avengers and help
them steal the cradle
away from ultron so
tony getting those crazy ideas of his
decides to try making an ai
all over again but this time putting his
butler program jarvis
into the synthetic man that ultron
created you want me
to help you put jarvis into this thing
and it works creating an entirely new
being that thor names
the vision i've had a vision and that's
because he saw him in a vision after he
took asgardian peyote and had a schvitz
with some invisible space witches that's
not important right now
so now the vision has all sorts of weird
powers he can fly
change his density create capes change
his appearance and shoot laser beams
from the mind stone
he earns the avengers trust by being
worthy to lift thor's hammer so wanda
who's really new at this freaks out
during the battle she's not sure if she
can make it and then arrow guy gives her
a william wallace pep talk but if you
step out that door
and tell our enemies you are an avenger
okay
so the entire team is able to defeat
ultron at the cost of sokovia's capital
city and phrase life afterwards captain
america leads a new team of avengers
which includes the vision and wanda
following the death of her brother she
becomes close to the vision
these two weirdos with ties to the
infinity stones find out that they have
a lot in common i used to think of
myself one way
but after this
i am something else do you know i don't
know what this
is one day who knows
i may even control it but this new team
is still pretty green and wanda loses
control of her powers killing a bunch of
innocent civilians afterwards the world
governments ask the heroes to sign the
sokovia accords
which gives the world security council
full control over everything that
superheroes do tony riddle with guilt
over creating ultron signs the accords
while captain america refuses
if i see a situation pointed south
i can't ignore it and the avengers fight
amongst themselves i'll give you a topic
gun control metaphors and blockbuster
films unfortunately wanda and the vision
choose opposite sides and they're forced
to fight one another but when wanda is
injured vision loses control of his
powers
and near mortally wounds tony's bestest
friend i became distracted
i don't think that was possible neither
did i so cap's team surrenders so cap
has time to get away
one of these heroes ant-man goes on
house arrest where he has to constantly
outwit an fbi agent named jimmy wu i'll
be seeing you again
where like in general i'll see
like the next time you captain america
helps all the other heroes including
wanda escape so they go on the run while
vision is one of the two remaining
official avengers
but he and wanda start sneaking off
together in secret two weeks ago vision
turned off his transponder the two of
them share a bond through the infinity
stones he wears one on his head
and her powers are linked to all of the
different stones
i just feel you that's why she displays
the powers of several of them all at the
same time for instance her energy looks
like the ether she destroys objects like
the power stone she affects people's
minds
shows thor a vision of the future and as
we'll see later can feel vision's
presence in the afterlife but then
thanos sends his action figures to
retrieve the infinity stones which means
they would have to kill the vision so
vision asked wanda to use her powers to
just destroy the stone which would
prevent thanos from getting it
that's too high a price instead the
heroes work out a way to detach vision
from the stone thereby keeping him alive
and allowing wanda to destroy it so
thanos's forces attack the clock is
ticking
and they fail to separate the stone from
vision and wanda is forced to make the
ultimate sacrifice
i just feel you killing her beloved to
save the universe
but then thanos shows up and is like oh
that sucks lady i really feel for you
i understand my child but then he's like
psy
uses the time stone to reverse time
bring the vision back to life and rip
out the stone
killing him then he snaps his fingers
and kills off half the franchise
including wanda no no
no no five years later the other
avengers successfully resurrect the
people who were snapped away
and wanda gets to unload on thanos you
took everything from me so then the
entire marvel cinematic universe bands
together
a symbol and tony snaps away thanos at
the cost of his own life
ultimately half the avengers die or
retire and at tony stark's funeral wanda
implies that she can still
feel the vision's presence even though
he's dead she knows
they both do well that catches us up on
everything you need to know before one
division
if there's anything you think i should
have left in add me on twitter or let me
know in the comments below and if it's
your first time here
please subscribe for screen crush i'm
ryan airy
[Music]
you